=Ragios (Saint Ruby)


While reading the book “Nagios: system and Network Monitoring” by Wolfgang Barth, I thought it will be a good idea to write a Ruby based Object Oriented System and Network Monitoring tool similar to Nagios.

So I started writing such a tool. Since it was inspired by Nagios, I will call it Ragios (Ruby Agios) aka Saint Ruby since Agios is Saint in Greek.

This is all just for fun and educational purposes.

Ragios could be used to monitor any type of system including servers, workstations, switches, routers, system services and applications, locally or over a network. The system admin can define the tests he wants to run on the system or re-use tests written by other developers. The tests run periodically on the system. When a test fails the admin receives an email or SMS alert from Ragios. Everything is written in ruby, the configuration settings are all in ruby syntax. The Ragios system itself is written in ruby.

==Installation
I assume you are using a linux/unix system (Most likely debian/Ubuntu). However, Ragios is written in ruby so it can on any platform that supports Ruby including BSD, OS X, any Linux distro, Windows etc..

Using Git:

Download Ragios 

 git clone git://github.com/obi-a/Ragios.git

Change to the Ragios directory :

   $cd Ragios

Switch to the Ragios release branch

   git checkout release

Install the bundler rubygem :

   $sudo gem install bundler

Ragios uses bundler to manage dependencies. Bundler will install the right version of all the gems required for Ragios to run on your system.

Now while inside the ragios directory, run Bundler to install all the required gems and dependencies :
   
   $sudo bundle install

Installation is complete! Ragios is ready to use. 


==Usage

==Part 1.Basic Monitoring

===To Monitor a Website 


To monitor a website for availability; enter the following in the ragios/main.rb script


   monitoring	= [{:monitoring =>'http', 
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'Http connection to my site',
                   :domain => 'www.mysite.com',
                   :contact => 'admin@mysite.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  }]

  Ragios::Monitor.start monitoring

This will try to establish a http connection with the :domain => 'www.mysite.com' every '5m' (5 minutes), when it fails to establish a connection it will send a notification to the system admin specified by :contact => 'admin@mysite.com' via 'gmail'. if the website is still offline it will notify the admin again after 6 hours specified by :notify_interval => '6h'. :test is a description of the test being performed. It helps Ragios notify the system admin with accurate details of what went wrong on the system.

To send notifications via twitter use :via => 'twitter' and to send notifications via sendmail installed on the system use :via => 'email', using :via => 'gmail' means the notifications will be sent via gmail.
 

==To monitor multiple sites
   
   monitoring	= {:monitoring =>'http', 
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'Http connection to my site',
                   :domain => 'www.mysite.com',
                   :contact => 'admin@mysite.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  },
                   {:monitoring =>'http', 
                   :every => '30s',
                   :test => 'Http connection to client A's website',
                   :domain => 'www.clientA.com',
                   :contact => 'admin@mysite.com',
                   :via => 'twitter',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  },
                  {:monitoring =>'http', 
                   :every => '3h',
                   :test => 'Http connection to client B's website',
                   :domain => 'www.clientB.com',
                   :contact => 'admin@mysite.com',
                   :via => 'twitter',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  }

  Ragios::Monitor.start monitoring
  
The time interval between tests could be in seconds, minutes, hours or combined,
  :every => '5m', #every 5 minutes
  :every => '30s', #every 30 seconds
  :every => '4h', #every 5 hours
  :every => '6h30m', #every 5 minutes

Same thing applies to the values of the :notify_interval, they can be in seconds, minutes, hours or combined. 

An email notification to the System Admin will look like this

===Monitoring URLs
To monitor a URL,
     
     monitoring	=  [{ :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'video datafeed test',
                   :url => 'http://www.datafeed.com/resources/videos/1',
                   :contact => 'admin@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  }]

    Ragios::Monitor.start monitoring

You can monitor a combination of websites and URLs,

    monitoring	=  { :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'video datafeed test',
                   :url => 'http://www.datafeed.com/resources/videos/1',
                   :contact => 'admin@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  },
                  {:monitoring =>'http', 
                   :every => '30s',
                   :test => 'Http connection to client A's website',
                   :domain => 'www.clientA.com',
                   :contact => 'admin@mysite.com',
                   :via => 'twitter',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  },
                  { :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'My blog URL test',
                   :url => 'http://www.myblog.com',
                   :contact => 'admin@mail.com',
                   :via => 'email',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  }
                
   Ragios::Monitor.start monitoring

===Monitoring  a process
To monitor a process; using apache2 process as an example
 
      monitoring = [{  :monitoring => 'process',
                   :every => '10m',
                   :test => 'Apache Test',
                   :process_name => 'apache2',
                   :start_command => 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 start',
                   :stop_command => 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 stop',
                   :restart_command => 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart',
                   :pid_file => '/var/run/apache2.pid',
                   :server_alias => 'my home server',
                   :hostname => '192.168.2.9',
                   :contact => 'obi.akubue@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '1h'
                  }]
     Ragios::Monitor.start monitoring

To monitor a process you must provide the exact name of process as used by the OS. Example if the OS refers to the process as 'apache2' then using 'Apache2' or 'apache' will lead to the wrong results.
    
Ragios also notifies the system admin when an issue is resolved example when a website comes back online.

===main.rb 

The Ragios configuration settings should in the /ragios/main.rb script. A sample copy of the script looks like this:

  #ragios/main.rb
  require 'rubygems'
  require "bundler/setup"

  dir = Pathname(__FILE__).dirname.expand_path
  require dir + 'lib/ragios'
    

     monitoring = {:monitoring =>'http',
                   :every => '2m',
                   :test => 'Http connection to my blog',
                   :domain => 'obi-akubue.org',
                   :contact => 'obi.akubue@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  } ,
                  { :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '2m',
                   :test => 'My Website Test',
                   :url => 'http://www.whisperservers.com/blog/',
                   :contact => 'obi.akubue@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  },
                  {  :monitoring => 'process',
                   :every => '1m',
                   :test => 'Apache Test',
                   :process_name => 'apache2',
                   :start_command => 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 start',
                   :stop_command => 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 stop',
                   :restart_command => 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart',
                   :pid_file => '/var/run/apache2.pid',
                   :server_alias => 'my home server',
                   :hostname => '192.168.2.9',
                   :contact => 'obi.akubue@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '2m'
                  }

     Ragios::Monitor.start monitoring

Since main.rb is pure ruby code we can run it directly, from the /ragios directory : 

 $ruby main.rb

This will run the ragios system on our terminal as a top program. This can be useful for debugging purposes, to test our configuration script for errors.

Output from running the above main.rb script will look like this :

	Welcome to Ragios
	Initializing
	3 System Monitoring Objects detected

	test 1. Http connection to my blog
	Scheduled to run every 2m
	Running First Test...
	  [PASSED] Created on: Sun Dec 26 17:52:21 -0500 2010
	HTTP Connection to obi-akubue.org = PASSED

	test 2. My Website Test
	Scheduled to run every 2m
	Running First Test...
	  [PASSED] Created on: Sun Dec 26 17:52:45 -0500 2010
	HTTP Request to http://www.whisperservers.com/blog/ = 200

	test 3. Apache Test
	Scheduled to run every 1m
	Running First Test...
	16298 16297 16296 16295 16294 1919
	  [PASSED] Created on: Sun Dec 26 17:52:45 -0500 2010
	The process apache2 on host: 192.168.2.9 = PASSED

	PRESS CTRL-C to QUIT


We can also run Ragios as a daemon by running the ragiosd ruby script also in the /ragios directory. 

===Starting the Ragios System
Ragios runs as a daemon in the unix/linux system. 

To Start Ragios as a daemon from the terminal :

	$ruby ragiosd start

Stop the daemon :

	$ruby ragiosd stop

Restart the daemon :

	$ruby ragiosd restart

Check Status of the daemon :

	$ruby ragiosd status

To run Ragios as a top program, useful for testing purposes :

	$ruby ragiosd run

The ragiosd script simply demonizes the /ragios/main.rb script and runs it as a daemon. The logs and output of the daemon is saved in the /ragios/log directory as ragios.log and ragios.output respectively.

Run Ragios as 'sudo' when you need it to restart processes i.e.
 
  sudo ruby ragiosd start

===Notifications
When a test fails the system sends out a notification to the system admin about the problem.

===Sending Notifications via Sendmail
To send out notifications via sendmail use :via => 'email', example

    monitoring	=  [{ :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'video datafeed test',
                   :url => 'http://www.datafeed.com/resources/videos/1',
                   :contact => 'admin@mail.com',
                   :via => 'email',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  }]

You just need to have sendmail installed on your system, Ragios will use to send the notification.


===Sending Notifications via Gmail
To send out notifications via gmail, first create a Gmail account for the Ragios system. The email notifications will be sent out from this Gmail account.

Edit the script /ragios/lib/ragios/notifiers/gmail_notifier.rb, replace the line below with the username & password of the Gmail account you created.

  @username = 'gmail_username'  #replace with gmail username
  @password =  'gmail_password' #replace with gmail password

Now on the main.rb script use :via => 'gmail' example


  monitoring	=  [{ :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'video datafeed test',
                   :url => 'http://www.datafeed.com/resources/videos/1',
                   :contact => 'admin@mail.com',
                   :via => 'gmail',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  }]

===Sending Notifications via Twitter
First you need to create and register a twitter app at http://twitter.com/apps/new. Ragios will use this app to tweet the notifications. After you register the App, Twitter will give you a consumer_key and a consumer_secret. We will use them later.

Next you need to create a new twitter account for the Ragios system. This is the Twitter account that will tweet the notifications. To receive the tweets the system admin should follow this account. The account should be set to private on twitter.

After you create the account, you need to grant your registered twitter app access to it.

To do this you need the oauth rubygem

 sudo gem install oauth

This ruby script below will do the trick, copy and run the script in your system: 

  #twitter_auth.rb
  #!/usr/bin/ruby
  require 'rubygems'
  require 'oauth'
 
  consumer = OAuth::Consumer.new(
    'consumer key',
    'consumer secret',
    {:site => 'http://twitter.com'}
  )
 
  request_token = consumer.get_request_token
 
  puts "Twitter App Authorize URL \n" + request_token.authorize_url
  puts "Enter PIN:"
  pin = STDIN.readline.chomp
 
  access_token = request_token.get_access_token(:oauth_verifier => pin)
 
  puts "access token: " + access_token.token
  puts "access secret: " + access_token.secret


Use the ‘consumer_key’ and ‘consumer secret’ Twitter generated for your app earlier. Add it to these lines in the script: 

	consumer = OAuth::Consumer.new(
    	    'consumer key',
    	    'consumer secret',
        {:site => 'http://twitter.com'}
       )

When you run the script it will display an authorization URL, this is the url that you will use to ALLOW or DENY your twitter app access to the Twitter account you created for Ragios. Open the authorization URL in a web browser, choose ALLOW to grant access to your twitter app. Twitter will give you a PIN number, enter that PIN number on the prompt displayed by the ruby script. The script will now display your access_token and access_secret. The access_token and access_secret is all Ragios needs to gain read and write access to the twitter account.

Now open the tweet_notifier.rb script located in /ragios/lib/ragios/notifiers directory. This is the script that Ragios uses to tweet the notification messages. Replace the lines below from the script with the real values for the access_token, access_secret, consumer key and consumer secret. 

      oauth = Twitter::OAuth.new('Consumer Key', 'Consumer secret')
      oauth.authorize_from_access('access token', 'access secret')   
          

Now on the main.rb script use :via => 'twitter' example


  monitoring	=  [{ :monitoring => 'url',
                   :every => '5m',
                   :test => 'video datafeed test',
                   :url => 'http://www.datafeed.com/resources/videos/1',
                   :contact => 'admin@mail.com',
                   :via => 'twitter',  
                   :notify_interval => '6h'
                  
                  }]

Example of an email notification will look like this: 

 Subject: Http connection to my blog FAILED
 
 Http connection to my blog FAILED! HTTP Connection to obi-akubue.org = getaddrinfo: Name or service not known
 Created on: Wed Sep 22 13:55:21 -0400 2010


A tweet notification will look like this:

 Http connection to my blog FAILED! HTTP Request to http://obi-akubue.org/ = getaddrinfo: Name or service not known 
 Created on: Sat Oct 16 04:48:09 -0400 201

 
  
== Part 2.Advanced System Monitoring: Using Objects To Monitor systems
Using Ruby Objects to monitor systems gives you the flexibility to add your own code to easily extend the functionality of Ragios making it run tests exactly the way you want.

Ragios is an object-oriented system used by system admin and developers to monitor web apps and system services. The system admin can use the Ragios's built-in objects to run tests on the system at a specified time interval. A system test may either PASS or FAIL, when a test FAILS the system admin is notified. Ragios has built-in objects to monitor web apps, system processes, APIs, websites etc. Everything is a Ruby object, so Ragios is capable of everything Ruby can do. Ragios benfits from Ruby's rich open source ecosystem with tons of libraries, gems and APIs.


===Using the built-in Objects
Built-in objects are available for different forms of system monitoring. 

===To monitor a website 
We use the HTTP object. This object tries to establish a Http connection with a website at the specified time interval. It notifies the system admin when its unable to establish the connection. 

To use the HTTP object, we need to create an object that exends it with the details of the website we wish to monitor.
This object should be defined in the /ragios/main.rb script.
 
Below is a sample object that uses the HTTP object to monitor my blog for availability, it sends me an email notification if my blog is offline. 
	
  class MonitorMyBlog < Ragios::Monitors::HTTP
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '10m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description = "Http connection to my blog"
      @domain = "obi-akubue.org"
      super
    end

    def notify
      email_notify
      #gmail_notify
      #tweet_notify
    end
  
  end

Ragios::Monitors::HTTP is the built-in generic object we use to monitor websites for availability. 

The object MonitorMyBlog will try to establish a http connection to my blog every 10minutes. It will send me an email notification when it fails to establish a http connection. 

@domain is the domain of the website we wish to monitor

   @domain = "obi-akubue.org"

@test_description is a summary of what we are testing with this object, this helps the Ragios system send out notification alerts with specific details on what went wrong in the system. Our object tests HTTP connections to my blog so its useful to note that in the descritpion. 

   @test_description = "Http connection to my blog"

@contact is the email address of the system admin. The monitoring object will send email notifications to this address to alert the system admin of failures in the system.
 
   @contact = "obi@mail.com" 

This could be omitted when we use other forms of notification like SMS, IM or Twitter.

@time_interval is the time interval in which our HTTP monitoring object tries to establish a Http connection with the specified website. In the example above, 

  @time_interval = '10m' 

means our object will try to establish a HTTP connection to my blog every 10minutes. @time_interval can be in seconds, minutes, hours or combined.

Example

	@time_interval = '3m'  #means the test will be performed every 3 minutes
	@time_interval = '4h'  #every 4 hours
	@time_interval = '30s' #every 30 seconds
	@time_interval = '6h30m' #every 6 hours 30minutes

@notification_interval is the time interval between sending notifications to the system admin when a test is still in a failed state. In the above example, we have  

   @notification_interval = '6h'

When the website goes offline, our monitoring object will send out notifications to the system admin every 6 hours as long as the website is still offline. It will stop sending notifcations when the website comes back online. It will also inform the system admin when when the issue has been corrected.

@notification_intervals can be in seconds, minutes, hours or combined.


When a test fails the monitoring object will notify the system admin by calling the notify() method. The object has some built-in notifiers for sending email and tweet notifications. To make the monitoring object send email notifications simply call email_notify() method inside notify(). For tweet notifications call tweet_notify(). See the notify() method below;

  def notify   
    email_notify
    #gmail_notify
    #tweet_notify
  end
 
In the above example, the system will notify the admin via email. email_notify() assumes you have sendmail installed on your system and uses it to send email. You can also use Gmail to send notifications by calling the gmail_notify() method instead. 

An email notification from the monitoring object above will look like this:

 Subject: Http connection to my blog FAILED
 
 Http connection to my blog FAILED! HTTP Connection to obi-akubue.org = getaddrinfo: Name or service not known
 Created on: Wed Sep 22 13:55:21 -0400 2010


A tweet notification will look like this:

 Http connection to my blog FAILED! HTTP Request to http://obi-akubue.org/ = getaddrinfo: Name or service not known 
 Created on: Sat Oct 16 04:48:09 -0400 201

In the monitoring object's initialize method, you should always call the super() method to ensure that the object is fully initalized with the required properties of all the classes above it in the hierarchy. 

 super


===To monitor a URL in your web app 
We use the built-in URL Object. This object sends a Http request to the URL at the specified time interval. The URL passes the test when it returns a 200, 301 or 302 response code and FAILS when it gets any other response code from the server, it also fails when there's a request timeout or an exception.  We use the URL object by extending it with details of the URL we wish to monitor. 

Below is a sample object to monitor a URL on my website www.whisperservers.com 


   class MonitorBlogURL <  Ragios::Monitors::URL
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '20m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description  = "My Website Test"
      @url = "http://www.whisperservers.com/blog/"
      super
    end

   def notify
     email_notify
     #gmail_notify
     #tweet_notify
   end

  end

The monitoring object defined above will send a http request to @url (http://www.whisperservers.com/blog) every @time_interval (20 minutes), if it gets a http error response code, request timeout or any other exception it will send an email notification to @contact (obi@mail.com) via email_notify() with details of what went wrong. It will continue sending notications every @notification_interval (6 hours) until the issue has been fixed.

Ragios::Monitors::URL is the generic object we use to monitor URLs. We can use this to monitor availability of APIs, data feeds, web pages etc.

===To Monitor a process
We use the built-in Process object, it checks if the specified process is running evey time interval and notifies the system admin when the process is not running. We use the Process object by extending it with details of the process we wish to monitor. 

Below is an example of an object monitoring Apache web server on Ubuntu:

  class MonitorApache <  Ragios::Monitors::Process
    def initialize
       
      @time_interval = '1m'
      @notification_interval = '2m'
      @contact = "obi.akubue@gmail.com"
      @test_description  = "Apache Test" 
      
      @process_name = 'apache2'
      @start_command = 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 start'
      @restart_command = 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart'
      @stop_command = 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 stop'
      @pid_file = '/var/run/apache2.pid'
     
      @server_alias = 'my home server'
      @hostname = '192.168.2.2'
 
      super
    end

   def notify
     #email_notify
     gmail_notify
     #tweet_notify
  end

  def fixed 
     gmail_resolved
  end
 end

The fixed() method is optional, its invoked when test goes from FAILED to PASSED. In this case when Ragios detects that the process is running again after failure it will invoke the fixed() method. The gmail_resolved() method sends an issue resolved message to the systems admin via gmail. Other methods are available to send an issue resolved massage via twitter and sendmail see the Section on Failure Recovery for more information.

@process_name should be the exact name of the process because Ragios uses the name of the process to check if its running. Example 'apache2' for the Apache webserver daemon on Ubuntu. Using 'apache' or 'Apache2' will make Ragios unable to find the process.

===Adding Monitoring Objects to the Ragios system
To add our monitoring objects to the Ragios System we just need add to the following lines to the bottom of the /ragios/main.rb script.

  monitoring = [MonitorMySite.new, MonitorBlogURL.new, MonitorApache.new] #initializes our objects and adds them to the list of monitoring objects
  Ragios::System.start monitoring #starts the monitoring process with all our monitoring objects running tests at their 
                                  #specified time interval. Ragios is also multi-threaded so each object runs on its own thread. 

===main.rb
All the monitoring objects should be defined in the /ragios/main.rb script. With the monitoring objects we have written above our /ragios/main.rb script will look like this:

  #ragios/main.rb
  require 'rubygems'
  require "bundler/setup"

  dir = Pathname(__FILE__).dirname.expand_path
  require dir + 'lib/ragios'

  class MonitorMySite < Ragios::Monitors::HTTP
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '10m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description = "Http connection to my blog"
      @domain = "obi-akubue.org"
      super
    end

    def notify
      email_notify
      #gmail_notify
      #tweet_notify
    end

  end

  class MonitorBlogURL <  Ragios::Monitors::URL
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '20m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description  = "My Website Test"
      @url = "http://www.whisperservers.com/blog/"
      super
    end

   def notify
     email_notify
     #gmail_notify
     #tweet_notify
   end

  end

  class MonitorApache <  Ragios::Monitors::Process
    def initialize
       
      @time_interval = '1m'
      @notification_interval = '2m'
      @contact = "obi.akubue@gmail.com"
      @test_description  = "Apache Test" 
      
      @process_name = 'apache2'
      @start_command = 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 start'
      @restart_command = 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart'
      @stop_command = 'sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 stop'
      @pid_file = '/var/run/apache2.pid'
     
      @server_alias = 'my home server'
      @hostname = '192.168.2.2'
 
      super
    end

   def notify
     #email_notify
     gmail_notify
     #tweet_notify
  end

  def fixed 
     gmail_resolved
  end

  end

  monitoring = [MonitorMySite.new, MonitorBlogURL.new, MonitorApache.new]
  
  Ragios::System.start monitoring

The basic configuration is now complete. We can now run the Ragios system.

Since main.rb is pure ruby code we can run it directly, from the /ragios directory : 

 $ruby main.rb

This will run the ragios system on our terminal as a top program. This can be useful for debugging purposes, to test our configuration script for errors.

Output from running the above main.rb script will look like this :

	Welcome to Ragios
	Initializing
	3 System Monitoring Objects detected

	test 1. Http connection to my blog
	Scheduled to run every 10m
	Running First Test...
  	  [PASSED] Created on: Thu Nov 18 14:14:49 -0500 2010
	HTTP Connection to obi-akubue.org = PASSED

	test 2. My Website Test
	Scheduled to run every 20m
	Running First Test...
  	  [PASSED] Created on: Thu Nov 18 14:15:02 -0500 2010
	HTTP Request to http://www.whisperservers.com/blog/ = 200

	test 3. Apache Test
	Scheduled to run every 1m
	Running First Test...
	16298 16297 16296 16295 16294 1919
	  [PASSED] Created on: Sun Dec 26 17:52:45 -0500 2010
	The process apache2 on host: 192.168.2.9 = PASSED

	PRESS CTRL-C to QUIT

We can also run Ragios as a daemon by running the ragiosd ruby script also in the /ragios directory. 

===Starting the Ragios System
Ragios runs as a daemon in the unix/linux system. 

To Start Ragios as a daemon from the terminal :

	$ruby ragiosd start

Stop the daemon :

	$ruby ragiosd stop

Restart the daemon :

	$ruby ragiosd restart

Check Status of the daemon :

	$ruby ragiosd status

To run Ragios as a top program, useful for testing purposes :

	$ruby ragiosd run

The ragiosd script simply demonizes the /ragios/main.rb script and runs it as a daemon. The logs and output of the daemon is saved in the /ragios/log directory as ragios.log and ragios.output respectively.

Run Ragios as 'sudo' when you need it to restart processes, example if you have a process monitoring object that needs to restart a web server;
 
  sudo ruby ragiosd start

or 
  sudo ruby main.rb

===Notifications
When a test fails the Monitoring Object sends out notifications by calling its notify method. 

===Sending Notifications via Sendmail
If you have sendmail installed on your unix/linux system you can use it to send out notifications by simply calling email_notify() from the notify() method of your monitoring Object. Example;


  class MonitorMySite < Ragios::Monitors::HTTP
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '10m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description = "Http connection to my blog"
      @domain = "obi-akubue.org"
      super
    end

    def notify
      email_notify
    end
  end

The method below 

    def notify   
      email_notify
    end

ensures that the notification will be sent out via sendmail.


===Sending Notifications via Gmail
To send out notifications via gmail, first create a Gmail account for the Ragios system. The email notifications will be sent out from this Gmail account.

Edit the script /ragios/lib/ragios/notifiers/gmail_notifier.rb, replace the line below with the username & password of the Gmail account you created.

  @username = 'gmail_username'  #replace with gmail username
  @password =  'gmail_password' #replace with gmail password

To make your monitoring object use Gmail, just call gmail_notify() from its notify() method. See below;

 class MonitorMySite < Ragios::Monitors::HTTP
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '10m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description = "Http connection to my blog"
      @domain = "obi-akubue.org"
      super
    end

    def notify
      gmail_notify
    end
  end

This 

 def notify   
   gmail_notify
 end

ensures that the notifications will be sent via the Gmail account you added to the system. 

===Sending Notifications via Twitter
First you need to create and register a twitter app at http://twitter.com/apps/new. Ragios will use this app to tweet the notifications. After you register the App, Twitter will give you a consumer_key and a consumer_secret. We will use them later.

Next you need to create a new twitter account for the Ragios system. This is the Twitter account that will tweet the notifications. To receive the tweets the system admin should follow this account. The account should be set to private on twitter.

After you create the account, you need to grant your registered twitter app access to it.

To do this you need the oauth rubygem

 sudo gem install oauth

 This ruby script below will do the trick, copy and run the script in your system: 

  #twitter_auth.rb
  #!/usr/bin/ruby
  require 'rubygems'
  require 'oauth'
 
  consumer = OAuth::Consumer.new(
    'consumer key',
    'consumer secret',
    {:site => 'http://twitter.com'}
  )
 
  request_token = consumer.get_request_token
 
  puts "Twitter App Authorize URL \n" + request_token.authorize_url
  puts "Enter PIN:"
  pin = STDIN.readline.chomp
 
  access_token = request_token.get_access_token(:oauth_verifier => pin)
 
  puts "access token: " + access_token.token
  puts "access secret: " + access_token.secret


Use the ‘consumer_key’ and ‘consumer secret’ Twitter generated for your app earlier. Add it to these lines in the script: 

	consumer = OAuth::Consumer.new(
    	    'consumer key',
    	    'consumer secret',
        {:site => 'http://twitter.com'}
       )

When you run the script it will display an authorization URL, this is the url that you will use to ALLOW or DENY your twitter app access to the Twitter account you created for Ragios. Open the authorization URL in a web browser, choose ALLOW to grant access to your twitter app. Twitter will give you a PIN number, enter that PIN number on the prompt displayed by the ruby script. The script will now display your access_token and access_secret. The access_token and access_secret is all Ragios needs to gain read and write access to the twitter account.

Now open the tweet_notifier.rb script located in /ragios/lib/ragios/notifiers directory. This is the script that Ragios uses to tweet the notification messages. Replace the lines below from the script with the real values for the access_token, access_secret, consumer key and consumer secret. 

      oauth = Twitter::OAuth.new('Consumer Key', 'Consumer secret')
      oauth.authorize_from_access('access token', 'access secret')   
          

Now to write a monitoring object that sends out tweet notifications, we just call tweet_notify() from the notify() method. See example below:

  class MonitorMySite < Ragios::Monitors::HTTP
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '10m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description = "Http connection to my blog"
      @domain = "obi-akubue.org"
      super
    end

    def notify
      tweet_notify
    end

  end

Having, 

   def notify   
     tweet_notify
   end

ensures that this object will tweet all its notifications.

=== Recovery From FAILURE
When a monitoring object runs a test on the system, you can add damage repair code to fix the issue when a test fails. Damage repair code could do things like restart a monitored process when it stops running, switch a web app to a backup server when a monitored server goes down.

Lets say we have a web app that depends on an external XML data feed. The object below tests the XML data feed for availability every 10 minutes, when the data feed goes offline it switches our webapp to a new feed, and when the issue is fixed, it switches back to the original feed. 

 class MonitorDataFeed <  Ragios::Monitors::URL
    def initialize
      @time_interval = '10m'
      @notification_interval = '6h'
      @contact = "obi@mail.com"
      @test_description  = "Top videos Data Feed"
      @url = "http://www.website.com/89843/videos.xml"
      super
    end

   def notify
     gmail_notify
   end

   def failed 
   #this method is invoked when a test fails
   #we put code here to switch our webapp to a new data feed
   end

   def fixed  
   #this method is invoked when a test goes from FAILED to PASSED
   #we put code here to switch our webapp back to the original data feed, 
   #since the issue has been fixed
   end
  end

Every monitoring object can overide the failed() and fixed() methods. When a test fails the Ragios system will invoke the failed(). The system admin can add any failure recovery code in the failed() method to get executed when a test fails. 

Now when a test goes from FAILED to PASSED again, the system will invoke the fixed() method. The system admin can add any clean up or roll-back code to the fixed() method.

In the MonitorDatafeed object above, when the data feed goes offline the failed() method will be invoked which will switch our webapp to a new data feed. The Ragios system will continue monitoring the old data feed for recovery, when the old data feed recovers Ragios will invoke the fixed() method. This will switch our webapp back to the original data feed.

Thanks for reading. I will write more soon.    

===Great Gems that made this possible;
Bundler,
Pony, 
Twitter, 
Oauth, 
Rufus-scheduler, 
Gmail.

===License
MIT License.
Copyright (c) 2010 Obi Akubue, obi-akubue.org








